---
layout: page
title: About
---
Hi, I'm Matt. 

I was born in the early 80's in Margate, a seaside town in the county of Kent in
the UK. Currently I live in Canterbury; still in Kent, but closer to London;
with my wife, three kids, and our cat.

I hold a **BEng (hons) in Computer Systems Engineering** from the University of
Kent.

I also hold a **MSc in Broadband and Mobile Communication Networks** from the
same University after my undergraduate supervisor applied for EPSRC funding on
my behalf (and without my knowledge), it was a pleasant surprise, that enabled
me to afford to continue to study.

I started my career as a programmer straight away after leaving
University. After a couple of years as a junior **Delphi, Visual Basic and C#**
programmer I changed direction. I found **Ruby** in 2007 via a junior **Systems
Administrator** position at a startup based in London.

I moved from SysOps into Development in 2008 and continued to write Ruby for the
next 14 years in various forms.

In November 2018 I started a role as a **Senior Developer** at
**[Shopify](https://www.shopify.com)**, where I remain currently. 

I started in the Code Foundations team working to improve the codebase health of
the primary **Rails** monolith.

In May 2020 I moved into the Ruby Infrastructure team where I switched track to
work mostly in **C**, **Ruby** (and a little **Rust**) to work on improvements
to the Ruby interpreter and virtual machine.

Working at a lower level to develop a programming language impementation instead
of web based technologies has been a huge shift for me, with a steep learning
curve attached. But I am enjoying my work more than ever. I am predominantly
focussed on Garbage Collection and memory management, and I've spoken about my
current project at [EuRuko](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x_YhDCNeFQ8),
[RubyKaigi](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7C3bdT6Ri2Q) and
[Rubyconf](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5ifXSPYidoE) (heads up that all of
these talks are iterations on the same talk).

Shopify are a global company, Founded in Canada, and I work remotely from my
home in the UK.

In March of 2023, I was graciously accepted as a [**Ruby
Committer**](https://bugs.ruby-lang.org/users/31800), and now I take an active
part in improving and maintaining CRuby/MRI (the original, and reference Ruby
implementation, originally written by Matsumoto Yukihiro, in C). You can follow
our work at [the official project bug tracker](https://bugs.ruby-lang.org/).

Previously I have worked at
[FutureLearn](https://www.futurelearn.com),
[OnTheBeach](https://www.onthebeach.co.uk/) and
[Reevoo](https://www.reevoo.com/en/) amongst others.

### About this site

This site is static HTML, generated by
[bridgetownrb.com](https://bridgetownrb.com/), a static site generator written
in [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org). Styling is mine.

Hosting is provided by Github pages, with my custom domain on top.
